.TH GPG-GO-GUI 1 "2025-01-01" "gpg-go 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gpg-go-gui \- graphical interface for OpenPGP operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gpg-go-gui
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gpg-go-gui
is the graphical user interface for gpg-go, providing a full-featured
OpenPGP client with key management, encryption, decryption, signing,
verification, and keyserver integration.
.PP
The GUI is built with Fyne and runs natively on Linux (X11/Wayland),
macOS, Windows, FreeBSD, and other platforms.
.SH TABS
.TP
.B Keys
Manage your OpenPGP keyring. Generate new key pairs, import and export
keys, view key details, and delete keys.
.TP
.B Encrypt / Decrypt
Encrypt messages for selected recipients or with a passphrase. Decrypt
incoming encrypted messages.
.TP
.B Sign / Verify
Create digital signatures (detached, clear-text, or inline) and verify
signatures on messages.
.TP
.B Keyserver
Search for keys on HKP keyservers, download keys, upload your public
keys, and refresh your keyring.
.TP
.B Settings
Configure the default keyserver, theme (light/dark/system), and view
application paths and statistics.
.SH KEY GENERATION
The GUI supports generating keys with the following algorithms:
.IP \(bu 2
Ed25519 (recommended) \- modern, fast, small keys
.IP \(bu 2
RSA-4096 \- traditional, maximum compatibility
.IP \(bu 2
RSA-3072 \- good balance of security and performance
.IP \(bu 2
RSA-2048 \- minimum recommended key size
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.gpg-go/
Shared data directory with the gpg-go CLI tool.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GPG_GO_HOME
Override the default home directory.
.TP
.B FYNE_THEME
Set the Fyne theme (light or dark).
.TP
.B FYNE_SCALE
Set the UI scale factor.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gpg-go (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Written in Go using the Fyne toolkit.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/hamalizer/gpg_go/issues
