.TH GPG-GO 1 "2025-01-01" "gpg-go 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gpg-go \- modern OpenPGP encryption and signing tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gpg-go
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIoptions\fR] [\fIfiles\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gpg-go
is a complete, modern rewrite of GnuPG in Go. It provides full OpenPGP
encryption, decryption, digital signing, signature verification, and key
management. It supports both asymmetric (public-key) and symmetric
(passphrase-based) cryptography.
.PP
gpg-go is designed to be cross-platform, running natively on Linux, macOS,
Windows, FreeBSD, and other operating systems supported by Go.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B generate
Generate a new OpenPGP key pair. Supports Ed25519 (recommended), RSA-4096,
RSA-3072, and RSA-2048.
.TP
.B list-keys \fR[\fIsearch\fR]
List public keys in the keyring. Optionally filter by search term.
.TP
.B list-secret-keys \fR[\fIsearch\fR]
List secret (private) keys in the keyring.
.TP
.B encrypt \fR[\fIfile\fR]
Encrypt a file or stdin for one or more recipients. Use \fB-r\fR to specify
recipients and \fB-c\fR for symmetric encryption.
.TP
.B decrypt \fR[\fIfile\fR]
Decrypt an OpenPGP encrypted message from a file or stdin.
.TP
.B sign \fR[\fIfile\fR]
Create a digital signature. Supports detached (\fB-b\fR), clear-text
(\fB--clear-sign\fR), and inline signatures.
.TP
.B verify \fIfile\fR [\fIsigned-file\fR]
Verify a digital signature. For detached signatures, provide both the
signature and the signed file.
.TP
.B import \fIfile\fR
Import public or private keys from an armored key file.
.TP
.B export \fIkey-id\fR
Export a public key in armored format. Use \fB--secret\fR to export the
private key.
.TP
.B delete \fIkey-id\fR
Delete a key from the keyring. Use \fB--secret\fR to also delete the
secret key.
.TP
.B fingerprint \fR[\fIkey-id\fR]
Display key fingerprints.
.TP
.B search-keys \fIquery\fR
Search for keys on an HKP keyserver.
.TP
.B recv-keys \fIkey-id\fR...
Download and import keys from an HKP keyserver.
.TP
.B send-keys \fIkey-id\fR...
Upload public keys to an HKP keyserver.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-armor
Create ASCII armored output.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIfile\fR
Write output to the specified file instead of stdout.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-recipient " " \fIname\fR
Encrypt for the specified recipient. Can be a key ID, fingerprint, or
email address. May be specified multiple times.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-local-user " " \fIname\fR
Use the specified key for signing.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-symmetric
Use symmetric (passphrase-based) encryption.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-detach-sign
Create a detached signature.
.TP
.B \-\-clear-sign
Create a clear text signature.
.TP
.B \-\-secret
When used with \fBexport\fR or \fBdelete\fR, operate on secret keys.
.TP
.BR \-\-homedir " " \fIdir\fR
Set the home directory for gpg-go data (default: ~/.gpg-go).
.TP
.BR \-\-keyserver " " \fIurl\fR
Use the specified keyserver URL.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output.
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Show version information.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help message.
.SH ALGORITHMS
.TP
.B Ed25519 / X25519
Modern elliptic curve algorithms. Fast, small keys, high security.
Recommended for new keys.
.TP
.B RSA
Traditional algorithm. Supported key sizes: 2048, 3072, 4096 bits.
Widely compatible.
.TP
.B AES-256
Default symmetric cipher for message encryption.
.TP
.B SHA-256
Default hash algorithm for signatures.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.gpg-go/
Default home directory.
.TP
.I ~/.gpg-go/pubring/
Public keyring directory. Keys stored as individual armored files.
.TP
.I ~/.gpg-go/secring/
Secret keyring directory. Keys stored as individual armored files
with restricted permissions (0600).
.TP
.I ~/.gpg-go/trustdb.json
Trust database.
.TP
.I ~/.gpg-go/config.json
Configuration file.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GPG_GO_HOME
Override the default home directory.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Generate a new Ed25519 key:
.RS
gpg-go generate --quick --name "Alice" --email "alice@example.com"
.RE
.PP
Encrypt a file for a recipient:
.RS
gpg-go encrypt -a -r bob@example.com secret.txt -o secret.txt.asc
.RE
.PP
Decrypt a message:
.RS
gpg-go decrypt message.gpg
.RE
.PP
Sign a file (detached, armored):
.RS
gpg-go sign -ab document.pdf
.RE
.PP
Verify a detached signature:
.RS
gpg-go verify document.pdf.asc document.pdf
.RE
.PP
Search a keyserver:
.RS
gpg-go search-keys alice@example.com
.RE
.PP
Import a key from a keyserver:
.RS
gpg-go recv-keys ABCD1234EFGH5678
.RE
.SH COMPATIBILITY
gpg-go implements the OpenPGP standard (RFC 4880 / RFC 9580) and is
interoperable with GnuPG, Sequoia-PGP, and other RFC-compliant
implementations.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gpg-go-gui (1),
.BR gpg (1),
.BR gpg2 (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Written in Go. Powered by ProtonMail's go-crypto library.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/hamalizer/gpg_go/issues
